# Tic-Tac-Toe-Game-Logic-Explanation
  Here I explain my approach and difficulties that I encountered when creating a single page web application for the game Tic Tac Toe. <br>
  Making a functional tic tac toe game was one of the hardest tasks that Ive ever had to accomplish. I came into this fully immersive course having no real technological background experience. I was amazed though with what I was able to create having such little knowledge. I actually initially started my project without really completing a wireframe or having any real user stories created. I instantly ran into a lot of planning problems and had to reassess my entire project. I went back to the very basics and made sure to plan well so that I could progressively move forward with my project instead of running in one place (Which is what it felt like with no prior planning). I actually made the gameboard on html and css first using bootstrap. From there I went into the JavaScript game logic for the project, which in my opinion was by far the hardest part of the project. I had a real problem trying to write DRY code, and quickly found out how difficult it was to do. I made sure to write a ton of psuedo code before actually writing any logic and at this point I knew I needed to use my user stories to help me out.<br>
   I started by making a gameboard variable which held an array with 9 empty " " which represented all of the spaces on the gameboard. I then needed to figure out how to alternate between 'X' and 'O' on the gameboard, so i wrote code that said if the current player variable equaled 'X', then switch that variable to 'O', and the same thing for 'O'. So now that I got the alternating players to show up, I needed to figure out how to determine whether a player won or not. I hard coded all of the possibilities using an if else statement, along with hardcoding if it is a draw or not. I also needed to make another variable which basically said that you could only click on an empty and non occupied space, saying if the target that you were clicking is equal to " ", then you can continue. I then needed to add a new game button that when pressed started a new game and cleared the board. <br>
   I next needed to create authorization for the game so that a player could log in and out of his account and see the games that he has played. This was fairly simple because the backend for this was already completely set up, so all I really had to do was make some click events and connect to the Api using ajax requests. For me, the hard part was connecting to the api for the game moves, this was far more involved than I anticipated. I feel like I didnt have a 100% full grasp of how exactly I was supposed to do this but after research I realized how to do this. When making the Ajax requests however, I made many mistakes when it came to referencing specific pieces of the Api, and the reason was because I really didnt pay close enough attention to how everything was set up. If I was to do this all over again next time, I would make sure I spent ample time looking at the Api and studying exactly how it is set up because this wouldve made all the Ajax requests much easier. I could not figure out how to make a users past games show up on my application and I spent much time figuring out how to do this. Now I understand how to do this, and using handlebars makes everything much simpler. <br>
   Overall, even though this project was extremely difficult and I was a little discouraged after my final product, I have to say that I learned an exponential amount. I can say that I knew exactly how to attack my next project when it was assigned and it gave me a good sense on the importance of proper time management and planning for a minimum viable product.
